A long time ago, mankind was touched by the planet's anger,
and the world was engulfed in flames.
It was the Day of the Cataclysm.
The flames burned ferociously,
with an intensity threatening to incinerate the places mankind lived,
the languages they spoke, and the culture they had built up.
This is a run-down kind of run-down.
Lieutenant Karim, long time no see.
What brings you here?
Tamaki, I'm pleased to see you in good health.
We're here to compare notes, both now and moving forward.
We figured we should start working together.
Am I really going to have to fight the White-Clad... and Sho?
Hey, stop spacing off over there.
--Wah! Put me down, you idiot! --Um... How did...?!
No touching me there!
Maybe you aren't my beloved steed Silver, the partner I've been looking for,
but even now, you're still my partner. Isn't that right, Sil-burro?
Please stop hanging weird stuff on the walls.
This is my Pegasus, who via Vulcan descended to earth
and made possible my miraculous recovery.
It's a donkey.
Are you okay with this, Lieutenant?
"Moosifer"
Arthur, get back to work.
That hat came from Vulcan, didn't it, sir?
I saw it here this morning.
Don't those horns get in the way?
They don't impede my work.
Lieutenant, you're much too cavalier about fashion.
Would you like me to buy you something sometime?
I wouldn't trust you to buy anything that didn't come out of a fairy tale.
Huh? It would be better than those horns, sir.
Come on, enough idle chatter.
That looks like impedance.
"Moosifer"
Nee-chan, sorry to trouble you.
Roger wilco, sir.
Hmm?
Hey, Obi!
I know you're not using Iris as your tea girl, right?
Nee-san, I offered to do this.
But never mind that...
What are you sitting up there for?
I don't appreciate being made to sit on the same level as 1st gravel.
Would you prefer I sit on the floor, instead?
Ah, yes, please do so.
What's the matter? Get sitting, already.
Crap. I only meant it as a little joke.
All right, let's jump in and get this meeting started.
Let's share the information that each of us has obtained so far,
and figure out any leads and plans we have for the Evangelist going forward.
We just barely started believing the White-Clad even existed not long ago.
I'm here on behalf of Beni, but we don't have much information yet.
There are cases of human combustion being carried out by the White-Clad
along with all the other cases that are taking place now.
The reason Rekka Hoshimiya was using bugs to create man-made Infernals
was to find those that he said were "compatible" to the flames.
Perhaps they aren't just making Infernals,
but instead are trying to find some special ability.
Dr. Giovanni was apparently after the "key" to Amaterasu.
Do they have some kind of designs on Amaterasu?
"Company 3 captain imposter arrested on assault charge"
The attack on Vulcan is being reported as being committed
by an imposter wearing a mask like Dr. Giovanni's.
But this one's the imposter.
Haijima was probably afraid of their own Company 3 being scandalized,
and arranged for a fall guy.
Vulcan, who has actually seen Giovanni's face,
said for a fact the man at the press conference wasn't him.
The 3rd has apparently had a number of people leaving it.
Probably spies that were embedded there.
They're likely back with the Evangelist by now.
I'm not sure if all of Haijima is against us,
but the 3rd, under Haijima's control, is working beyond the empire's oversight.
The White-Clad's actions are only going to get even more radical.
If we don't know the full scope of the enemy,
we should find their base and hit them.
My man Licht has already started looking into their base.
You, a member of the Special Fire Force, huh?
There's nothing so unusual about that, right? We're champions of justice.
You can tell where the base is from just that?
From just this? No.
Can you trust Licht?
So far, he's done well by us.
The 8th's objective is to pinpoint where the Evangelist is, and move in.
Do you have a plan for moving in, you musclebound 8th gorilla?
Can the 8th's rookies fight?
Even if you do find out where they are, you can't beat them.
Are they really that bad?
You have no idea.
The ability their commander, Sho, has
probably comes from a Link with the Evangelist.
An Adolla Link...
What do you think the 8th needs?
The 8th's rookies are outstanding.
I can vouch for the strength and quality of their abilities.
However, they do lack experience.
Especially when it comes to hand-to-hand combat.
When they sparred at the 1st earlier,
they struck me as being hasty and inexperienced.
Their abilities may be competent and effective,
but they're lacking in actual combat.
Combat, huh? We have someone who does nothing but combat.
Want us to look after them?
Can you use that genius brain of yours
to come up with a plan to improve the Devil's flames?
I'll give it some thought.
But you catching up to Commander Sho will depend on him.
Yeah, what's up, Konro?
Huh? Why do I have to look after them?!
What? I owe them? Yeah, I do owe them.
"Episode 18: The Secrets of Pyrokinesis"
Excuse me! It's Shinra, from the 8th!
C-Captain Shinmon...?
If this was combat, you'd be dead.
Okay, step right up!
You're here to have me train you, right? Don't let your guard down.
Dimwit.
I told you, don't let your guard down.
Ha!
Iron-madillo, the Magnetic Extinguishing Ball.
How is it used?
Oh, just watch.
It hits the flames with powerful magnetism, extinguishing them in an instant.
That's amazing. That will be handy for someone like me, who's unpowered.
Shinra and Arthur are off getting special training in Asakusa, right?
I don't want to be outdone, so I'm inventing some clever stuff.
You aren't relaxing, are you? There are no rules in combat.
You never know when something might happen.
Is it exhausting?
Y-Yes, sir.
That's because your life isn't at stake.
It's the tension itself you're feeling that gets you worked up.
On the battlefield, feel life, instead.
Your own life, your friends' lives, the other side's lives.
When you're aware of all those lives, the tension won't get you so worked up.
You're saying to treasure life, then.
When you're feeling life, it becomes harder to leave yourself vulnerable.
Now, on with the training. Come at me like I'm out for your lives.
Oh, they're going at it.
--They're going at it! --They're going at it!
That's enough.
Already?
Your aptitude is okay, but you're not about to hit me.
Your attacks have no element of surprise. You're lacking something.
Lacking something?
Do you know what that is?
A finishing move.
A finishing move--
I told you not to let you guard down!
Devise a finishing move that capitalizes on your speed advantage.
Leave it to you, Captain Shinmon. You're the best at noticing these things.
Huh?
Oh, hello there.
I'm Company 8's gate-crashing forensic science team, Viktor Licht.
I've thought up a way to power-up Shinra.
Captain Shinmon, can I ask you for your assistance?
What do you mean?
Put simply, jet propulsion.
Converging flames into one direction will increase propulsive force.
By compressing the emitted flame, burst firepower can be increased.
In other words, focus one's flame tighter, right?
Yes indeed.
Is this much firepower enough?
Yes indeed!
Awesome!
Right now, Shinra-kun, your flames wastefully spread out in many directions.
By simply consolidating them, your thrust will increase that much.
If you can condense your flames in one direction, like Captain Shinmon did,
you should be able to produce more speed than you currently do.
If I can do that, I'll have my finishing move.
Shinra, keep practicing nothing but your finishing move.
Sir!
Arthur, your ability is your finishing move.
Spar with me and let's train your fundamentals.
Come at me like you mean to kill me.
Hmph.
Well now, let's see how this goes.
Buddy, you don't seem like the others from the 8th.
So it's true that you came from Haijima, then.
My noggin is too sharp to be at the 8th, is that it?
If you try anything funny with the 8th, I'll toss you into the ocean.
Of course I'm not going to. Good grief.
I use my toes to fine-tune my attitude control,
so if I don't move them just right, I lose my balance.
On the other hand, there's no point in me pulling faces.
Thinking about something I haven't done is a waste of time.
I just need to keep trying.
He's clever. Just about all problems can be settled by saying,
"Whatever, just do it," or "Time to give up."
That's pretty simplistic for a clever scientist like yourself.
You first have to stand at the starting line
before you even realize what the real problem you should be thinking about is.
Not knowing what the problem is before trying it is what makes a problem hard.
In that regard, you're a lot like us tough punks.
How does Captain Shinmon control his flames so skillfully?
There must be some hint in there somewhere.
How many times must I tell you that Fire Soldiers do not play with fire,
First Class Fire Soldier Maki Oze?
It's not like that, sir!
Sputter and Flare have an important mission this time!
Has being caught up in fairy tales finally driven you crazy?
It's okay, Lieutenant.
I've created some new equipment for Maki-san that uses Sputter and Flare.
Hmm?
The Twin Hover Units, "Tekkyo."
"Twin Hover Units Tekkyo"
They're powered by Sputter and Flare.
They're weapons controlled by Maki-san's second-generation abilities.
What do they do?
They're flying hammers, I guess you'd call them.
They can launch physical attacks against enemies with powers,
who are resistant to flames.
What do you think?
The flight test went perfectly.
Then the Sput-Flare-Witch is finished.
It's not "Sput-Flare-Witch," it's "Tekkyo."
A long time ago, mankind was touched by the planet's anger,
and the world was engulfed in flames.
It was the Day of the Cataclysm.
The flames burned ferociously,
with an intensity threatening to incinerate the places mankind lived,
"Pass or else"
the languages they spoke, and the culture they had built up.
Pinch... Pinch... Take the big blast of flames and squeeze...
Squeeze... Squeeze...!
You haven't changed a thing!
Nothing but your silly face, you idiot!
Huh? Was I really making a face?
A disgraceful one.
A gross, ugly sourpuss.
This way doesn't work, either.
Captain Obi does this one a lot.
Rock & Roll!
What was that? Did his feet just rip a huge fart?
Don't divert your attention!
When you exploit an opening, be quiet about it.
Still, that wasn't bad.
Arthur... Shinra, try that one more time.
When you put your force behind your flames, sir,
you always do this with your hands,
so I've been trying to do the same with different forms.
That was one that Captain Obi often does...
Wah!
Huh?
It's hard to see what you're doing. Take off your gloves.
Yes, sir.
In old proto-national martial arts, there are what are called tenokata.
The thing I do with my index and middle fingers is one of them.
I use this form to control my flames.
"Tiger Claw" "Pickaxe Fist" "Mantis Hand"
There are a number of different tenokata, each with different effects.
"Bear Paw" "Crescent Moon Hand"
"Tiger Crush"
One of them is called Tora Hishigi, a form which increases foot power.
Place your index finger over the base of your thumb,
and place your thumb under the base of your pinky finger.
Making the form with your fingers
concentrates the flow of ki in your body to one spot.
This also affects your flames.
Control my ki with my fingers...?
You can figure the rest out from there.
Thank you very much, sir!
How long are you going to lie there? Let's keep going.
Huh? Oh.
Turn my index finger and thumb inward...
...and direct the flow of my ki into my feet.
Whoa!
That sensation--it was like my flames were being compressed,
and my body was about to be blasted upward!
Tora Hishigi is awesome!
The flow of my body's ki... I'm starting to get a handle on my flames!
This time, I'm going to shoot right up!
I feel the heat in my feet...
My tenokata... ...links to my feet...
I can get there faster... I can get to Sho faster...
Faster!
That's fast.
I guess this is why Joker sees so much promise in him.
Not bad at all.
--Damn it... --I'll give you credit for attacking quietly.
Shinra! Use that to come after me now!
Waka was dreading this at first, but I'm glad he's having fun now.
You mean that? He looks awfully unhappy to me.
Someone who's worth training has stopped by.
I'm sure Waka must be ecstatic.
A knight... does not lose...
It looks like he's getting worn out. Why don't we call it a day?
You took a pretty good beating. Are you okay?
Yeah. I'm a knight after all.
Shinra, have you come up with a name for your finishing move yet?
Oh, right! My finishing move!
--Don't drop your guard-- --Whoa!
So, what do you call your move?
Kicker-Man Kick!
Overruled.
Well, how are they doing?
They're still just a couple of kids.
Too shaky for their own good.
Your proto-national sword training is starting to take shape.
This single-edged blade moves differently than your omnidirectional one,
but you'll have more avenues of attack.
There's no harm in learning it.
Good, that was well done. If I hadn't known about it, you would have hit me.
Use it well.
Yes, sir!
I heard about your brother. He's the only family you have.
Make sure to keep him safe.
Thank you very much, sir!
Just sit tight.
"To be continued"
"Next time"
"Episode 19: Into the Nether"